Salesforce is one of the top cloud-based CRM software providers in the international market.  It is designed for service, marketing, and sales. The Salesforce CRM does not require any technical knowledge to set up as well as manage the same. It redefines the way businesses connect with the customers by creating a more meaningful relationship. By giving a single view of each client interaction, Salesforce CRM APP can give you a unique experience.  

Unlike any other CRM application, Salesforce is the ultimate solution for your business. It is featured with all the elements that are required to run your business on an automation platform with embedded intelligence.  

Salesforce CRM features and benefits are discussed below:
Contact Management

Salesforce CRM assures a hassle-free contact management by giving an access to critical data of the customers and interaction history. It gives a complete customer picture including insights and engage-enhancement strategies.  You can use the social data of the customers for a deeper understanding of their particular behavior regarding any product or service.

Cloud-based contact management enables you to easily collaborate in the organization. Share your insights and important documents to create a knowledge-sharing workplace.  In addition, you can trace the movement of the deals by accessing all the contact data.

Opportunity Management

The opportunity management is one of the top Salesforce CRM features and benefits to look for. It offers a chance to view the activity timeline of your customers. Also, it depicts the various stages of a particular deal which helps you to decide your next move. In addition, you can view critical details of the activity timeline along with the business competitors. And the ready-made templates ensure hassle-free emailing to the clients.  

Quote Management

Salesforce CRM simplifies your sales and business processes with forecasting and productivity tracking. Quote management of the products becomes easy with this CRM application. You can simply track the products, which are part of your deal, and it includes the standard price, quantity, product code, and quoted price. In addition, you can establish quantity as well as revenue schedule and it reflects the delivery terms and payment. The Salesforce CRM app is featured with a built-in quoting mechanism that automatically quotes client data. It also creates PDF of the approved template and sends it as an email directly to the customer.

You can get to know about the deals faster with real-time updates from the Salesforce mobile app.

Quote to Cash

Salesforce CRM automates three important elements, namely, configure, price, and quote (CPQ) to simplify the quote management. With this, the sales representatives can select the right quotes for the customers with the latest discounts. The users can create accurate quotes and submit the proposal faster with Salesforce. It also makes the invoice sending and the cash collecting process easy with Salesforce Lightening.

Einstein Analytics

The Einstein analytics offers you high business intelligence that helps to unlock complicated sales as well as service insights. With Einstein Actions, you can go to the next step faster. This analytics also connects the users to sales, service, and community clouds with embedded dashboards. It consistently demonstrates data as well as insights to the employees and partners. Data security is the prime aspect of Einstein and more than 150,000 business houses are sharing data and getting intelligent insights to grow business with this analytical tool.

Salesforce for Small Business

Salesforce offers Trailhead to guide and grow the small businesses and startups. This application has built-in intelligence and offers best-in-class services to customers. By giving 360-degree customer view, Trailhead catches data automatically from emails, support channels, and calendars. There is a setup assistant to answer the customer queries quickly. In addition, startups can learn a lot from the in-app tutorials. It also gives nitty-gritty and in-depth details on all the products of Salesforce including CRM.

Lead Management

The lead management of Salesforce CRM is featured with an affluent activity timeline. It gives an access to the up-to-date contacts on the timeline with the industry best practices. Also, it uses the sales path to understand the relevant documents. Functioning as a fast lead converter machine, this CRM app informs you about the original source of the leads. And the automatic emailing boosts your revenue generating mechanism.  

Each day, your inbox is flooded with thousands of emails and without a CRM tool; it has become an irksome job to keep a track of the same. Salesforce CRM scores your leads automatically and assigns the hottest lead at the first-hand to the right executive.  Thus, you can never fall off the track and grow more revenues.

Watch marketing activities across all channels

Marketing campaigns are the thick and thin parts of any business process and we run multiple campaigns on various channels to captivate the target audience. Salesforce CRM analytics automatically runmultiple marketing campaigns from a single platform and provides you the insights with real-time analysis about the performance of the same. Right from email campaigns to the social media campaigns, Salesforce keeps a note of each marketing step and informs you whether your email campaigning is doing better than the Facebook campaign. This will assist you in making better business decisions on investment plans and shows how your marketing activities influence the sales.  

Dynamic Dashboards and Custom Reports

Salesforce Dashboard Components give us a visual representation of how your business is performing in the market. Users can recognize market trends, clear up the quantities, and calculate the activities. Build your own dashboard by simply drag and drop icons in Salesforce CRM. In addition, you can inspect the performance of your team directly on the dashboard.  

Create your own customized sales forecasting report with Salesforce.  With simple drag and drop feature, users can adjust the fields and view data with filters. The charts represent the real-time data to give you the latest insight.

Mobility

The Salesforce mobile app allows usersto access CRM data at anytime and from anywhere. They can view meetings, events, and account updates at the fingertips. Even making conference calls and taking meeting note in more is convenient to the application. The offline data update enables you to work without any internet connection.  

View all the real-time data and thus you can close the deal faster on the mobile application.  Further, you can collaborate with your team via instant conversations. The files and document sharing become simple with the app, and it gives you more flexibility to work from anywhere.  


Email Integration with Salesforce Lightning

Salesforce email service accesses your Gmail and Outlook inboxes to synchronize emails.  With Salesforce Lightning and its seamless integration, users can have a complete view of the customers. The users can view the contacts as well as calendars from any device after the integration. Salesforce inbox for outlook enables you to sell your products and services smarter than any other such inbox with built-in intelligence. It streamlines the workflows of the sales representatives by permitting them to update real-time data in the sales pipeline.  

The Salesforce user groups can create their own templates as per business needs, and it assures hassle-free emailing to the critical contacts.  

Comprehensive Sales Forecasting

Salesforce CRM is an ideal tool to have a complete view of your pipeline and how your business is doing in the market. It tracks the journey of the leads in the pipeline to check whether they are reaching their destination i.e. deals or not. Upon analyzing the same, it gives a brilliant forecasting on sales. You can use your right judgment to the forecasted amount and plan your strategies accordingly.

This forecasting report gives you an opportunity to know your top performers on a real-time leaderboard. Salesforce CRM also streamlines complex sales processes by assuring a right overlay process. It gives right credit to the right person and enables to view the forecast as per overlays.

Workflow and Approvals with Salesforce Chatter

Salesforce CRM automation offers a point-and-clickinterface to the users with a process builder. It automates your sales as well as the business process by auto-assigning the tasks and email alerts. Also, it suggests the next step in a deal with built-in intelligence. The approval processes for a deal discount, travel, and expense report have become automatic with Salesforce CRM. Users can respond to such request directly from Chatter.

Files Sync and Share

The Salesforce document management system enables you to share files from any device at any time. It ensures internal and external collaboration with versioning and commenting. Users can easily drag and drop files and maintain access as well as control rights. Salesforce CRM is featured with multiple filters that make it easy to find a specific document from a pile.  It publishes current information on product specification, price lists, and contract documents.

Salesforce Engage

Salesforce CRM boosts customer engagement double by sending personalized messages. In addition, you can view the history of the conversation and decide the right response at the right time. The application is featured with an interactive dashboard which allows monitoring the campaigns’ performance. And thus, you can understand the most impactful element in your sales pipeline.

Sales Collaboration

Salesforce CRM helps you to keep the most critical projects, team, and topics in a social feed. It assists the team in working together to achieve a common goal.  The intelligent recommendation of Salesforce helps to discover the right people, information, and file based on activities as well as interests. It’s easy for users to identify experts and get their right information.  

Territory Management

The territory management of Salesforce CRM helps to manage assignment rules, new hierarchies, and territory assignments. Users can assign one rule to many territories and their decedents from the territory hierarchy.  The assigned users can identify their colleagues with the help of the territory rules. For instance, Salesforce CRM can assign different roles to various users in myriad territories.

Partner & Channel Management

Create the ecosystem of your partners quickly with Salesforce CRM app. This app plays the role of indirect sales channels and you can manage recruitment, onboarding, and training of the partners simply with Salesforce. Coordinate with your partners to make result-oriented and more effective marketing campaigns on clouds. The users don’t require code to extend the marketing cloud of Salesforce.  

It is a platform that makes it easy for partners to sell the products or services. In addition, you can customize the access to information and revamp partner tiers. Run various programs to incentivize the partners’ performance.  Taking leverage on your content management system (CMS), you can create a more engaging destination for the partners.

Connect to the right data at the right time and deliver powerful insights to the partners to understand their business in a better way. Salesforce also enables you to share dashboards and reports with your partners. It assists the partners to track KPIs and discover cross-sell as well as upsell opportunities from any device.

Moving On

When we talk about customer relationship, perhaps it is the most important thing in any business. It defines your brand positioning, market reputation, and public image. Managing customer relationship becomes easy with CRM like Salesforce. This intricatelydesigned and cloud-based application works beyond customer relationship optimization. Adopt it today!


New call-to-action
POPULAR
RECENT
20 Test Scenarios for Testing Login Pages & Search Functionalities
Ajit Pendse
Top Mobile App Development Frameworks in 2023
Ranjeeta Borah
Power BI Developer: Roles and Responsibilities, Skills, Scope and More
Kanchan Yewale
Best Web Development Technologies to Use in 2023
Shalaka Gadgil
Talk To Our Experts
Full Name*
Email*
Company name*
Submit your Message
RELATED BLOGS
How To Automate A Workflow With Workato? - A Sample Salesforce & Jira Integration
Platforms
How To Automate A Workflow With Workato? - A Sample Salesforce & Jira Integration
By Akash Sureka
Read more
Why Your Business Needs A CRM? – 15 Ultimate Benefits
Platforms
Why Your Business Needs A CRM? – 15 Ultimate Benefits
By Akash Sureka
Read more
Raise Your Revenues with Pipedrive Sales CRM
Platforms
Raise Your Revenues with Pipedrive Sales CRM
By Akash Sureka
Read more
Subscribe to
our newsletter
Type your email...*
TECHNOLOGIES
Full Stack Developers
Backend Developers
Hire .NET Developers
Hire Node.Js Developers
Hire PHP Developers
Hire Laravel Developers
Frontend Developers
Hire AngularJS Developers
Hire ReactJs Developers
Mobile App Developers
Hire Flutter Developers
Hire React Native Developers
Hire Xamarin Developers
Hire iOS Developers
Hire Android Developers
eCommerce Developers
Hire Shopify Developers
Hire nopCommerce Developers
SERVICES
Web App Development
Mobile App Development 
React Native Development 
RESOURCES
Blogs
Case Studies
White Papers
Webinars
Testimonials 
COMPANY
About Clarion
Careers
Partner with us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
GET IN TOUCH
India - +91 20 4900 7000
email - info@clariontech.com


100-Clarion-Logo
Copyright © 2023. All Rights Reserved.

